let's turn to the Middle East now where
Israel and Hamas are being pressed to
accept a ceasefire proposal outlined by
President Biden the US says they have
every expectation that Israel will
accept a ceasefire proposal that would
begin with a cessation of hostilities
for six weeks in Gaza a surge of
humanitarian Aid and an exchange of some
hostages for Palestinian prisoners as
pressure grows so does the fighting in
Gaza Palestinian media reporting a
series of Israeli air strikes on refugee
camps on Sunday in which they say about
20 people were killed feda alaraj is in
Rafa and she told us about the current
situation there the situation in Rafa is
is
unbelievably um horrific I can't really
describe it in words hundreds of
thousands of people are displaced yet
again like we were displaced to ra um
people are going back to places that has
no water no facility is no access
whatsoever but they are fleeing
literally for their
lives uh in terms of food like um uh the
markets are better than than other days
however the prices are still super high
the access to cash uh liquidity is
extremely difficult the use of banking
apps or banking transfers is also not an
option because of difficulties in
telecommunication and internet access so
even if we have a little bit more food
than usual in the market it's still
extremely difficult to get when you ask
me about the seire proposal to be super
honest I stopped caring I stopped
following these news for me it's just
another proposal in a series that has
failed so so far because to be honest it
seems that all the W put together uh
fails to hold Israel
accountable or even less to just manage
to stop them from what they're doing
here I'm concerned that I will not have
a future to be worried about at all so
that gives you an idea of daily life and
Rafa at the moment but nonetheless this
dpy proposal is on the table now here's
the view of what needs to happen for
that to progress from our International
editor Jeremy bar well they have to say
yeah we'll do the deal but also there
are a lot of granular details that they
would have to go through like for
example the ratio of released hostages
to prisoners what kind of prisoners what
might they have done and what sort of
hostages as well old people old people
and women including female soldiers
those sorts of
calculations uh the proposed proposal
that Biden laid out which he said of
course and it's been repeated by his
officials that it's a it's an Israeli
proposal it's what he said um is in it
there are six week blocks basically
where this would happen now uh of course
the issue is um is the politics on both
sides whether it's acceptable or not the
Hamas have always said they're fine with
the ceasefire as long as the ceasefire
means the war is over period and Israel
gets out of the Gaza Strip and from the
Israeli point of view since Biden made
his speech uh the prime minister's
office has made it clear that what
they're concerned about uh is sticking
with their objectives which is the
dismantling and destruction of herass as
a political and military force and that
of course as an objective has been
criticized because how do you actually
Define all of that and as well as that
one other thing of course it's the
Israeli political Dimension which is
that Mr Netanyahu is reliable is is his
government depends on the votes of
extreme Jewish Ultra nationalist parties
who made it clear that they're not at
all interested in these kinds of deals
in fact what they want to do is even go
in there set up a government in Gaza and
settle Jews in a lot of the territory as
well to pick up on one of those points
then Jeremy when you you hear Israeli
defense minister yov Galant he's been
speaking in the past hour or so backing
up uh Mr Netanyahu saying we not accept
the rule of Hamas and Gaza at any point
at any stage does that mean that the
ceasefire is just a non-starter when
that that's the perspective of Mr
Netanyahu uh well that phrase nonstarter
has actually has been used by his office
in the context of their their wider
objectives yes Israel is prepared to
have a SE f
once we've managed to they would say
destroy uh destroy hamas's rule in Gaza
and from the Hamas point of view they
know that in this kind of asymmetric
Warfare between a powerful State and a
militia group uh Victory from the
militia group is
survival uh and it's the fact that that
they they're still there at the very end
of things and the point being made by a
lot of observers including in a an
interview that's come up um today with
the former prime minister former Army
Chief of Staff Former Defense Minister
uh eood Barack and he said look Israel
is saying that when they've done Rafa
that'll be it he said no it won't be it
they have to send troops elsewhere into
the Gaza Strip the point is is that it
turned into an Insurgency or is turning
into an Insurgency in other words there
will be men with kalashnikovs and Rocket
propeller grenades popping out of holes
in the ground perhaps for months firing
them at Israelis and the fact they can
fire them is what for them counts as
resistance and a continuing fight and
for Israel might count as not fully
eradicating uh Hamas the you know close
allies of the Prime Minister have said
that this might go on for the the rest
of the year or longer Jeremy what's your
view of America's influence right now
and President Biden you made the point
that he has said you know this is an
Israeli proposal obviously trying to put
some more pressure on Benjamin Netanyahu
there but where do you think he's at
with
us well I I think I think Biden's quite
conflicted because his instincts are to
back Israel to the hilt but he has an
appalling relationship like other um
American Presidents particularly
Democrats have had with uh with Benjamin
Netanyahu uh from the very beginning
he's been offering them advice he said
look America's got your back we will
back you up and they've been doing that
sending over vast amounts of Weaponry
plus absolutely invaluable diplomatic
protection in the UN Security Council a
vetoing resolutions calling for ceased
Fires for example um and at the same
time Netanyahu basically has not been
taking his advice because he calculates
that he can speak over the head of the
president to Israel's allies of which
there are many in the US Congress but
Biden's problem is it's an election year
and the polls are saying that he's used
he in what will be a close election he's
losing vital votes because of what's
seen as um uh a support of Israel that's
gone above and beyond what America
should have done for one of its allies
that Israel critics would say have
sacrificed the moral High Ground it
might have had on the 7th of October and
that Mr Biden by continuing on one hand
to say look don't use these very heavy
weapons in civilian areas and then on
the other hand transporting loads more
heavy weapons 2,000lb bombs and the like
to the Israelis uh that that his
protestations therefore seem
unconvincing and Hollow but I think the
time has come now he said himself in
that speech he said look this war has
got to end and the argument he and he
said there will be people in Israel who
won't agree with this but the argument
that he makes is that Hamas cannot do
another 7th of October attack and so
that should be it but from netanyahu's
problem apart from the fact that he
might lose his Coalition over it which
for him is a big big deal uh he's
defined Victory as the eradication of
Hamas and if they stop now well clearly
with the senior leadership of Hamas in
Gaza uh still um at Liberty and with
their their their Fighters opening up up
on Israeli soldiers when they get the
opportunity then clearly Hamas is still
there